Welcome back.
In this video we're going to talk about adding methods and properties directly onto a class.
These methods and properties are called statics and make use of the static keyword.
Let's see what that looks like.
To add a static method on a class we simply add the word static before it let's create a class called
student and add a static method called is student to see if an object is created from the Student class
by checking the constructor property.
To use this method we simply invoke it directly on the class.
Let's create a new object from the Student class and see if it has been created from the Student class
and it has about an empty array.
We expect this to return false and it does.
So when are static methods useful.
Sometimes we don't want every object created from a class to have its own method.
Specifically when we want to use the method without creating objects from that class think about a time
where you use the static method.
How do you see if something is an array in javascript.
Remember we can't use of these type of array returns objects.
So instead we commonly use array is array.
This method is array is a static method on the array constructor function.
You might have come across some other static methods like object or create to create new objects or
object or freeze to prevent an object from being modified.
If you haven't encountered these methods no worries will be introducing quite a few more static methods
that yes 2015 gives us.
So you'll clearly understand the value of a static method.
Before we continue with some more new keywords that he has 20:15 gives us when working with classes.
Let's practice a bit with instance and class methods.
Good luck and I'll see you in the next video.